# Group-064 Chess Program Design Document

## Specification
### Player register
The user can register a player user by inputting a username and a password in the register page that can be accessed through the initial menu of the program webpage. If the username is already used in the user information database, a message is outputted informing the user that the username is already in use. If the username is not already in the user information database, the user information is stored in the database and a message is outputted informing the user that they have successfully registered an account.
### Player password reset
The user can request to change the password of their player user through the login page. To do this, the user inputs their username, their desired new password, and their email. Once they submit this information, a message is displayed telling them to wait until the administrator contacts them (through their email). This information (the username, the desired new password, and the email) is viewable by the master user in their reset password page, so that they can reset these passwords then contact the emails listed to inform them that their password is reset.
### Player login
The user can log in as a player by inputting their username and password in the player login page that can be accessed through the initial menu of the program webpage. If the username is not in the database or if the password does not match the username's associated password, a message is outputted that says that their username or password is incorrect, and to try again. If the username is in the database and the password matches the username's associated password, then the user is redirected to the "Welcome to board" page of the program.
### Playing the game
The button to start the game can be found in the "Welcome to board" page of the program. The program also displays the username of the currently logged in user, and their Elo rating. If the user chooses to hit the play button, they are redirected to a page that lists the currently online players. On this page, they can input one of the online players' usernames and which colour they would like to play as. The way to have other online players is to open another webpage of the application and log in as another user. This will cause both of the logged in users to show up on the online players list. If the user inputs a username of an online player and a valid colour to play as, the match begins and a GUI of a chess board opens. The two users use this chess board to play chess. They input their moves by dragging and dropping the pieces on the board. The board outputs the outcomes of the move by updating the board to reflect the moves made. If a piece is dragged to make an invalid move, such as moving a piece to a place it cannot legally move to or moving a piece of a colour whose turn it is not, said piece will reappear back in its original spot and it will still be the players whose turn it was' turn. There are also undo and redo buttons that the user can interact with by clicking on them, which will cause a move to be undone or redone, respectively. The board outputs the result of the undo/redo by returning the board to the state it had been previously. If the board is in a checkmate state, the program displays a message informing the users that there is a checkmate and that the match is over. The program then recalculates both users' Elo ratings based on the result of the match (which user won and which user lost). This updated Elo rating can be seen in the "Welcome to board" page of the program.
### Master user login
The user can log in as a master user by inputting a username and password in the master user login page that can be accessed through the initial menu of the program webpage. There is only one set of username and password for the master user. The username is "masterusername" and the password is "masteruserpassword". It is not possible to register new master users to prevent access of the database by people who do not know the master user login information. If the inputted username and password are correct, the user is redirected to the master user console page. 
### Manipulate user login database
Master users are able to manipulate the database that contains the login information of the player users. The manipulations they can make are resetting passwords, and deleting users, with each of these functions having their own pages. The pages to perform these functions are accessible through the master user console page. The master user console page also displays the number of users that are currently online. 
The reset password page features a table at the top that displays password reset requests from users. This table includes the usernames of these users, their desired new password, and their emails. The master user can input a username and a password to update the player with that username's password to the inputted password. If the username is not in the database, a message is outputted that says that the username does not exist in the system. If the username is in the database, then the player with that username's password is changed to the inputted password and a message is outputted informing the master user that the password has been successfully changed. 
In the delete user page, the master user can input the username and password of a player they wish to delete. If the inputted username is not in the database, then a message is outputted informing the master user that the username does not exist in the system. If the inputted password does not match the username's associated password, a message is outputted that says that the deletion was a failure. If the username is in the database and the password matches the username's associated password, then the user is deleted from the database and a message is outputted informing the master user that the player has been successfully deleted.
